README.md, before:

# **Modern Buddhism**

## **Site Overview**
***
The New Kadampa Tradition (NKT) is a modern form of Buddhism without any cultural influence from the east. It stems from Tibetan Buddhism, which is publicly known in the west but is more accessible to people with a busy lifestyle. It removes a lot of the cultural aspects of the Tibetan nations and provides everything in English.  Typically when someone wishes to learn the teachings from the Tibetan schools, they would be required to learn Tibetan and perform lengthy rituals to gain the full benefit of the practice.  The founder of the NKT, Geshe Kelsang Gyatso saw that cultural influences from Tibet were an obstacle to western practitioners and worked diligently to create a structure that was more suited to modern life.

![Am I responsive screenshot](assets/readme/screenshots/am-i-responsive.jpg)

## **Planning stage**
***
### ***Who is the site intended for? (target audiences):***
* Users craving to be happy yet have failed to find the answers outside in the world outside of themselves. 
* Users with a general interest in Buddhism and want to learn more.
* Users who have never heard of the NKT.
* Users who have heard of the NKT but would like to find more information on the tradition.

### ***User story's:***
* As a user I want to be able to see clearly what the page is about.
* As a user I want to be able to easily navigate the page to find what I require.
* As a user I want to be able to leave feeling like I knew more that I did when I arrived at the site.
* As a user I was to be able to easily navigate my way to free resources
* As a user I want to be able to reach out and connect to discuss/experience the subject matter on a deeper level. 

### ***Site aims:***
* To educate the user on the NKT.
* To educate the user on the core value of Buddhism.
* To offer the user a chance to connect to the international community in person.
* Provide the user with the information required to check for a base of operations close to them.
* To offer the user a to contact the site author for further info or discussion.
* Provide a method by which the user can subscribe to a newsletter.

### ***How is this will be achieved:***
* The home page provides the user with a summary of the tradition, how it is suitable for modern people and how the NKT came to be.

* The site will provide multiple free resources such as 
    * Two free e-books with an excerpt used on the teaching page to highlight a core concept in Buddhism.
    * Links to further free resources via the NKT's own homepage and their social media pages. 
    * Embedded YouTube videos.

* The site will provided information on the options available to engage with the international community.
    * Working holidays.
    * International festivals.

* The site provides a link to a meditation center locator tool hosted on Kadampa.org. 

* If the user is in a country or region without a nearby centre, or wishes to speak to someone informally about the subject I have included a contact form to connect the site author directly. The reason for this also relates to the [Future-enhancements](#future-enhancements) section listed later in this readme. 

* Providing a newsletter to which the user can subscribe whilst sending the site author a message our else by omitting the message and selecting the relevant option before clicking the submit button.

### ***Wireframes:***
To organize my thoughts and prevent scope creep I decided to create wireframes even though they were not specifically required to this project. Below are links to each of the mobile and desktop versions of the 4 intended pages. 

* Mobile Wireframes:
    * [Homepage (About)](assets/readme/wireframes/homepage-mobile.png)
    * [Teachings page](assets/readme/wireframes/teaching-mobile.png)
    * [Community page](assets/readme/wireframes/community-mobile.png)
    * [Contact page](assets/readme/wireframes/contact-mobile.png)

* Desktop wireframes:
    * [Homepage (About)](assets/readme/wireframes/homepage-desktop.png)
    * [Teachings page](assets/readme/wireframes/teaching-desktop.png)
    * [Community page](assets/readme/wireframes/community-desktop.png)
    * [Contact page](assets/readme/wireframes/contact-desktop.png)

During the project there was some deviation from the original wireframes in order to improve the User Experience (UX) as a whole. Such deviations include: -

* The inclusion of a hero image and quote on each page to improve uniformity across all pages.
* Images were used on the teaching page to break up the text.
* Headings and content placement to allow for the flow of information to be relevant.
* A second logo was added to the header on larger screens to add symmetry and make the design more appeasing to the eye.
* The two boxes in the footer were originally intended to be the images for the e-book downloads used in the final design. This idea was abandoned as not to increase the footer height to much on mobile devices and to improve the flow of information as the user progressed through the pages.

### ***Color scheme:***
When deciding the color scheme I wanted to go with something that gave an elegant appearance. For this reason I selected a range of blue and gold's and used the following color grid created on https://contrast-grid.eightshapes.com/ to check the contrast scores. This allowed me to ensure all text remained visible and the site was accessible to all.
![Color contrast grid](assets/readme/screenshots/color-grid.png)

## **Current Features**
***
###  ***Header element***

#### Title:
![Page title](assets/readme/screenshots/title.jpg)

* The title serves to clearly state the name of the tradition.
* It also serves as a navigation link to the home page in this case called "about" as per the well establish convention expected by the user.

#### Logos:
* The logos are to illustrate the subject of the site, as well as to offer something to appease the users eye filling the blank space without distracting from the title.

    * One logo on mobile devices was to ensure the title stays as big as possible on a smaller screen there by improving the user experience.

        ![Mobile header](assets/readme/screenshots/mobile-header.jpg)

    * Two logos on larger screens gave better symmetry to the header whilst filling the excess white space provided by a wider screen size.

        ![Desktop header](assets/readme/screenshots/desktop-header.jpg)

### Site Navigation:
The navigation bar appears on all five pages (including the form feedback page). It contains links to the about, teachings, community and contact page to allow easy navigation around the website. 
![Navigation bar](assets/readme/screenshots/nav-bar.jpg)

In addition, to the navbar, each page includes a hyperlink at the bottom of the content. "Return to top of the page" takes the user back to the navigation bar if they have had to scroll a long way down to read all the content. This is especially useful on mobile devices where the column width for the content is narrower.\
![Navigation bar](assets/readme/screenshots/return-to-top.png)
## About Page
### Hero Image
The hero image depicts Geshe Kelsang Gyatso, who was the founder of the New Kadampa Tradition. He is smiling and waving as if welcoming the user to the page. Behind him is the primary temple of the tradition, which holds great significance to the tradition. The temple pictured is considered the center of its international operations based within the grounds of its mother center in the lake district, England.

### Quote Overlay
Taken from the book "Modern Buddhism", this quote gives an example of what Buddhism can do for the user and how to achieve this goal.

### Content
This section gives a brief historical summary of the New Kadampa tradition, a quick overview of how it came to be, and a short video of how it differs from traditional Kadampa Buddhism. At the end of the content, there is an embedded anchor tag so they can download a free copy of one of Geshe Kelsang Gyatso's books in electronic format to read on their phone or their kindle. The is another book that is available for free download. However, I chose not to include this on the site as it covers a more advanced set of topics in its later chapters.

## Teachings Page
### Hero Image
This image is Geshe Kelsang Gyatso sat on what is commonly called a throne at one of the traditions international festivals. The throne is where a teacher sits to expound the oral lineage past from teacher to disciple, and so it was appropriate for a page discussing the core beliefs of the philosophy in his own words.

### Quote
This quote is the first line of the provided exert from "Transform your Life", the book available to download for free. The intention is to set the tone for the following teaching within the content, explaining Buddhism's core belief.

### Content
This page includes an exert from the downloadable e-book. It covers the core beliefs behind what Buddhism teaches. I have purposely kept it to the most relatable teachings to those looking to improve their mental health. There are more esoteric aspects within the belief system of Buddhism; however, they are not necessary to adopt to gain benefit from the teachings. This extract from the book "Transform Your Life" summarizes the core value that all problems arise from within us. 

I have included some images to break up the monotony of the long passage and illustrate its meaning. The initial image does not add meaning to the text and so was added via CSS. The image is symbolic of the traditions, linage and teachings and is used purely as decoration.

At the end of the exert, I have included a further link to download a full copy of the book if the user wishes to read it further. 

At the bottom of the content, there is a link to Kadampa.org for more free excerpts from Geshe Kelsang Gyatso's books, covering a broader range of subjects. In addition to this, I have provided a link to the publication company run by the tradition where the users can purchase the full range of Geshe Kelsang Gyatso books and materials, including Buddhist prays and artwork approved by the tradition. 

## Community Page
### Hero Image
The hero image shows members of the international community gather outside the front doors of the traditions mother center in the Lake District.

### Quote overlay
This quote was taken from the book "Modern Buddhism" to emphasize the importance of community for anyone looking to improve their state of mind.

#### Content
The page begins by explaining the terminology used here to bridge the gap in understanding and prevent the site from feeling too esoterical or religious. This explanation then introduces the international community and their goal to achieve the accessibility of Buddha's teachings to people worldwide.

The user then gets offered two methods to connect directly with the international community to further their experience of Modern Buddhism.

## Contact Page
### Hero Image
The artwork pictures 3 of the common deities used within the New Kadampa Tradition. I used this to be eye-catching even when viewed from smaller devices.

### Quote Overlay.
This quote was taken from the book "Understanding the Mind" by Geshe Kelsang Gyatso and conveys that ultimately our actions create the world.  I used this here to indicate that people can make a difference to the world around them by working on their minds.

### Content
This page reiterates ways to reach out to the New Kadampa Tradition in the user's local area.

I have included a subsection with a contact form for anyone located in Malta like myself who would be interested in learning more and growing the community here on the island with me.


## Future-enhancements

The future intention of the site would be to serve as a website specifically for Malta, where there is no community until now. However, Due to the summer break, which the tradition undergoes every year, I could not reach the traditions director with my request for permission. I decided to build a tribute site to showcase to the head office and adapt the content to be more Malta specific later on. 

At first, the purpose would remain to educate and raise awareness meaning the current content would still be applicable; however, There would be additional content I could add as interest grew. Such things would be: -

* Times/dates/venues for Meetups in Malta to build a community
* Times/dates/venues for Book clubs to study and discuss the materials and methods to apply them to daily life.
* More information on the lineage of the tradition to include short biographies.

Eventually, when Malta was designated, a teacher by the head office these would then convert into: -

* Times/dates/venues/fees for Formal classes
* Times/dates/venues/fees for Public talks/events
* Include a bio for Malta's officially designated teacher at the end of the traditions lineage page or add to a new page that summarizes their experience.

Once I better understand Javascript, I would like to add a burger menu for mobile-sized device screens. I found articles on how to achieve this with CSS and HTML alone; however, I did not deem this necessary to create the minimum viable product.

Commit message:

begin editing section of readme for hero images add screenshotof about page hero image

README.md, after:

# **Modern Buddhism**

## **Site Overview**
***
The New Kadampa Tradition (NKT) is a modern form of Buddhism without any cultural influence from the east. It stems from Tibetan Buddhism, which is publicly known in the west but is more accessible to people with a busy lifestyle. It removes a lot of the cultural aspects of the Tibetan nations and provides everything in English.  Typically when someone wishes to learn the teachings from the Tibetan schools, they would be required to learn Tibetan and perform lengthy rituals to gain the full benefit of the practice.  The founder of the NKT, Geshe Kelsang Gyatso saw that cultural influences from Tibet were an obstacle to western practitioners and worked diligently to create a structure that was more suited to modern life.

![Am I responsive screenshot](assets/readme/screenshots/am-i-responsive.jpg)

## **Planning stage**
***
### ***Who is the site intended for? (target audiences):***
* Users craving to be happy yet have failed to find the answers outside in the world outside of themselves. 
* Users with a general interest in Buddhism and want to learn more.
* Users who have never heard of the NKT.
* Users who have heard of the NKT but would like to find more information on the tradition.

### ***User story's:***
* As a user I want to be able to see clearly what the page is about.
* As a user I want to be able to easily navigate the page to find what I require.
* As a user I want to be able to leave feeling like I knew more that I did when I arrived at the site.
* As a user I was to be able to easily navigate my way to free resources
* As a user I want to be able to reach out and connect to discuss/experience the subject matter on a deeper level. 

### ***Site aims:***
* To educate the user on the NKT.
* To educate the user on the core value of Buddhism.
* To offer the user a chance to connect to the international community in person.
* Provide the user with the information required to check for a base of operations close to them.
* To offer the user a to contact the site author for further info or discussion.
* Provide a method by which the user can subscribe to a newsletter.

### ***How is this will be achieved:***
* The home page provides the user with a summary of the tradition, how it is suitable for modern people and how the NKT came to be.

* The site will provide multiple free resources such as 
    * Two free e-books with an excerpt used on the teaching page to highlight a core concept in Buddhism.
    * Links to further free resources via the NKT's own homepage and their social media pages. 
    * Embedded YouTube videos.

* The site will provided information on the options available to engage with the international community.
    * Working holidays.
    * International festivals.

* The site provides a link to a meditation center locator tool hosted on Kadampa.org. 

* If the user is in a country or region without a nearby centre, or wishes to speak to someone informally about the subject I have included a contact form to connect the site author directly. The reason for this also relates to the [Future-enhancements](#future-enhancements) section listed later in this readme. 

* Providing a newsletter to which the user can subscribe whilst sending the site author a message our else by omitting the message and selecting the relevant option before clicking the submit button.

### ***Wireframes:***
To organize my thoughts and prevent scope creep I decided to create wireframes even though they were not specifically required to this project. Below are links to each of the mobile and desktop versions of the 4 intended pages. 

* Mobile Wireframes:
    * [Homepage (About)](assets/readme/wireframes/homepage-mobile.png)
    * [Teachings page](assets/readme/wireframes/teaching-mobile.png)
    * [Community page](assets/readme/wireframes/community-mobile.png)
    * [Contact page](assets/readme/wireframes/contact-mobile.png)

* Desktop wireframes:
    * [Homepage (About)](assets/readme/wireframes/homepage-desktop.png)
    * [Teachings page](assets/readme/wireframes/teaching-desktop.png)
    * [Community page](assets/readme/wireframes/community-desktop.png)
    * [Contact page](assets/readme/wireframes/contact-desktop.png)

During the project there was some deviation from the original wireframes in order to improve the User Experience (UX) as a whole. Such deviations include: -

* The inclusion of a hero image and quote on each page to improve uniformity across all pages.
* Images were used on the teaching page to break up the text.
* Headings and content placement to allow for the flow of information to be relevant.
* A second logo was added to the header on larger screens to add symmetry and make the design more appeasing to the eye.
* The two boxes in the footer were originally intended to be the images for the e-book downloads used in the final design. This idea was abandoned as not to increase the footer height to much on mobile devices and to improve the flow of information as the user progressed through the pages.

### ***Color scheme:***
When deciding the color scheme I wanted to go with something that gave an elegant appearance. For this reason I selected a range of blue and gold's and used the following color grid created on https://contrast-grid.eightshapes.com/ to check the contrast scores. This allowed me to ensure all text remained visible and the site was accessible to all.
![Color contrast grid](assets/readme/screenshots/color-grid.png)

## **Current Features**
***
###  ***Header element***

#### Title:
![Page title](assets/readme/screenshots/title.jpg)

* The title serves to clearly state the name of the tradition.
* It also serves as a navigation link to the home page in this case called "about" as per the well establish convention expected by the user.

#### Logos:
* The logos are to illustrate the subject of the site, as well as to offer something to appease the users eye filling the blank space without distracting from the title.

    * One logo on mobile devices was to ensure the title stays as big as possible on a smaller screen there by improving the user experience.

        ![Mobile header](assets/readme/screenshots/mobile-header.jpg)

    * Two logos on larger screens gave better symmetry to the header whilst filling the excess white space provided by a wider screen size.

        ![Desktop header](assets/readme/screenshots/desktop-header.jpg)

### ***Site Navigation***
#### Navigation bar:
The navigation bar appears on all five pages (including the form feedback page). It contains links to the about, teachings, community and contact page to allow easy navigation around the website. 
![Navigation bar](assets/readme/screenshots/nav-bar.jpg)

#### Return to top of the page link:
In addition, to the navbar, each page includes a hyperlink at the bottom of the content. "Return to top of the page" takes the user back to the navigation bar if they have had to scroll a long way down to read all the content. This is especially useful on mobile devices where the column width for the content is narrower.\
![Navigation bar](assets/readme/screenshots/return-to-top.png)

## ***Hero Images***
I have included a hero image on each page to make the site uniform across all pages. Each image has a zoom animation to grab the attention of the user and are overlaid a quote designed to give the user a brief insight into the teachings of the NKT.

#### About page:

The hero image depicts Geshe Kelsang Gyatso, who was the founder of the New Kadampa Tradition. He is smiling and waving as if welcoming the user to the page. Behind him is the primary temple of the tradition, which holds great significance to the tradition. The temple pictured is considered the center of its international operations based within the grounds of its mother center in the lake district, England.
![Navigation bar](assets/readme/screenshots/return-to-top.png)


### Quote Overlay
Taken from the book "Modern Buddhism", this quote gives an example of what Buddhism can do for the user and how to achieve this goal.

### Content
This section gives a brief historical summary of the New Kadampa tradition, a quick overview of how it came to be, and a short video of how it differs from traditional Kadampa Buddhism. At the end of the content, there is an embedded anchor tag so they can download a free copy of one of Geshe Kelsang Gyatso's books in electronic format to read on their phone or their kindle. The is another book that is available for free download. However, I chose not to include this on the site as it covers a more advanced set of topics in its later chapters.

## Teachings Page
### Hero Image
This image is Geshe Kelsang Gyatso sat on what is commonly called a throne at one of the traditions international festivals. The throne is where a teacher sits to expound the oral lineage past from teacher to disciple, and so it was appropriate for a page discussing the core beliefs of the philosophy in his own words.

### Quote
This quote is the first line of the provided exert from "Transform your Life", the book available to download for free. The intention is to set the tone for the following teaching within the content, explaining Buddhism's core belief.

### Content
This page includes an exert from the downloadable e-book. It covers the core beliefs behind what Buddhism teaches. I have purposely kept it to the most relatable teachings to those looking to improve their mental health. There are more esoteric aspects within the belief system of Buddhism; however, they are not necessary to adopt to gain benefit from the teachings. This extract from the book "Transform Your Life" summarizes the core value that all problems arise from within us. 

I have included some images to break up the monotony of the long passage and illustrate its meaning. The initial image does not add meaning to the text and so was added via CSS. The image is symbolic of the traditions, linage and teachings and is used purely as decoration.

At the end of the exert, I have included a further link to download a full copy of the book if the user wishes to read it further. 

At the bottom of the content, there is a link to Kadampa.org for more free excerpts from Geshe Kelsang Gyatso's books, covering a broader range of subjects. In addition to this, I have provided a link to the publication company run by the tradition where the users can purchase the full range of Geshe Kelsang Gyatso books and materials, including Buddhist prays and artwork approved by the tradition. 

## Community Page
### Hero Image
The hero image shows members of the international community gather outside the front doors of the traditions mother center in the Lake District.

### Quote overlay
This quote was taken from the book "Modern Buddhism" to emphasize the importance of community for anyone looking to improve their state of mind.

#### Content
The page begins by explaining the terminology used here to bridge the gap in understanding and prevent the site from feeling too esoterical or religious. This explanation then introduces the international community and their goal to achieve the accessibility of Buddha's teachings to people worldwide.

The user then gets offered two methods to connect directly with the international community to further their experience of Modern Buddhism.

## Contact Page
### Hero Image
The artwork pictures 3 of the common deities used within the New Kadampa Tradition. I used this to be eye-catching even when viewed from smaller devices.

### Quote Overlay.
This quote was taken from the book "Understanding the Mind" by Geshe Kelsang Gyatso and conveys that ultimately our actions create the world.  I used this here to indicate that people can make a difference to the world around them by working on their minds.

### Content
This page reiterates ways to reach out to the New Kadampa Tradition in the user's local area.

I have included a subsection with a contact form for anyone located in Malta like myself who would be interested in learning more and growing the community here on the island with me.


## Future-enhancements

The future intention of the site would be to serve as a website specifically for Malta, where there is no community until now. However, Due to the summer break, which the tradition undergoes every year, I could not reach the traditions director with my request for permission. I decided to build a tribute site to showcase to the head office and adapt the content to be more Malta specific later on. 

At first, the purpose would remain to educate and raise awareness meaning the current content would still be applicable; however, There would be additional content I could add as interest grew. Such things would be: -

* Times/dates/venues for Meetups in Malta to build a community
* Times/dates/venues for Book clubs to study and discuss the materials and methods to apply them to daily life.
* More information on the lineage of the tradition to include short biographies.

Eventually, when Malta was designated, a teacher by the head office these would then convert into: -

* Times/dates/venues/fees for Formal classes
* Times/dates/venues/fees for Public talks/events
* Include a bio for Malta's officially designated teacher at the end of the traditions lineage page or add to a new page that summarizes their experience.

Once I better understand Javascript, I would like to add a burger menu for mobile-sized device screens. I found articles on how to achieve this with CSS and HTML alone; however, I did not deem this necessary to create the minimum viable product.
